===== PDF PAGE 1 =====
www.afm-journal.de
© 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH2210580 (1 of 12)
Real-Time Non-Driving Behavior Recognition Using Deep 
Learning-Assisted Triboelectric Sensors in Conditionally 
Automated Driving
Haodong Zhang, Haiqiu Tan, Wuhong Wang,* Zhihao Li, Facheng Chen, Xiaobei Jiang, 
Xiao Lu, Yanqiang Hu, Lizhou Li, Jie Zhang, Yihao Si, Xiaoli Wang,* and Klaus Bengler
Real-time recognition of non-driving behaviors is of great importance in 
conditionally automated driving, as it determines the takeover time budget, 
which in turn has a huge impact on the performance of the takeover. Here, a 
novel real-time non-driving behavior recognition system (RNBRS) integrating 
self-powered, low-cost, easy-to-manufacture triboelectric sensors, and a deep 
learning model is proposed. The structure, working mechanism, and electrical 
characteristics of triboelectric sensors are investigated and analyzed. Through 
the ingenious structural design of single-electrode triboelectric sensors and 
driving simulation experiments under conditional automated driving, non-
driving behaviors are captured in the form of electrical signals. A well-trained 
long short-term memory network model is adopted to recognize the five most 
typical non-driving behaviors, including phone, console touchpad, driving, 
monitoring driving, and no operation, and test accuracy of 93.5% is achieved. 
Demonstration of a set of controlled experiments shows that RNBRS enables 
vehicles with conditional automation to dynamically adjust takeover time 
budget based on driver behavior, therefore significantly improving both safety 
and stability of takeover. This study opens new frontiers for the development 
of self-powered electronics and inspires new thoughts on human-machine 
interaction and the safety of autonomous vehicles.
DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202210580
H. Zhang, H. Tan, W. Wang, Z. Li, X. Jiang, Y . Hu, L. Li, J. Zhang, 
Y . Si, X. Wang
School of Mechanical Engineering
Beijing Institute of Technology
Beijing 100081, China
E-mail: wangwh@bit.edu.cn; xiaoli_wang@bit.edu.cn
F. Chen
Department of Traffic Management School
People’s Public Security University of China
Beijing 100038, China
X. Lu
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Intelligent Manufacturing and Robotics
School of Mechatronic Engineering and Automation
Shanghai University
Shanghai 200444, China
K. Bengler
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Technical University of Munich
85747, Garching, Germany
1. Introduction
Recently, autonomous driving technology 
has attracted widespread attention around 
the world, and highly automated driving 
systems are considered to be a promising 
measure to improve traffic safety and 
transportation efficiency.
[1] According to 
SAE J3016_202104, [2] driving automation 
systems consist of six levels, namely Level 
0: No Driving Automation, Level 1: Driver 
Assistance, Level 2: Partial Driving Auto-
mation, Level 3: Conditional Driving Auto-
mation, Level 4: High Driving Automation, 
and Level 5: Full Driving Automation. For 
Level 1 to Level 3 driving automation sys-
tems, when the driving automation sys-
tems fail or reach the functional limit, 
the driver needs to take over the control 
of the vehicle to ensure the safe opera-
tion of the vehicle. As the level of driving 
automation systems rises to Level 4 and 
Level 5, drivers are no longer required to 
devote their attention to driving-related 
tasks including control, supervision, and 
takeover of the vehicle, meaning they are completely free from 
the driving task. Due to the limitations of current technology 
and the debate on traffic safety ethics, the realization of high 
driving automation (Level 4) and full driving automation (Level 
5) will still take a considerable period of time. Therefore, for a 
long time in the future, most of the vehicles on the road will be 
equipped with Level 1 to Level 3 driving automation systems.
[3] 
These vehicles require the driver to assume responsibility for 
the takeover of the vehicle when necessary to ensure the safe 
operation of the vehicles.
Takeover is a difficult driving operation. Drivers need to com-
plete a series of tasks such as situational awareness recovery, 
decision-making, and operational preparation within a limited 
time, and finally, safely take over the control of the vehicle to 
ensure the proper operation of the vehicle.
[4] How long the 
driver needs to prepare to ensure the safety of the takeover is 
one of the current research hotspots.
[5–7] Previous studies have 
shown that the non-driving task is one of the key factors in 
determining the driver’s required takeover preparation time.
[8] 
When it comes to taking over the vehicle, the non-driving task 
the driver is performing determines how much effort it takes 
ReseaRch aRticle
 
The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article 
can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202210580.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (2 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
to prepare for the takeover. [9] For instance, when the system 
issues a takeover request (TOR), if the driver is performing a 
non-driving task (such as playing on the phone), he or she will 
have to put in more effort to complete the preparations such 
as eye shifting from the phone to road and situational aware-
ness recovery than monitoring the road. As a result, the driver 
needs more time for the preparation of the takeover.
[10] There-
fore, realizing real-time recognition of the driver’s non-driving 
behavior can dynamically adjust the takeover time budget for 
takeover preparation required by drivers, which is of great sig-
nificance to the safety of the vehicle.
A variety of sensors have been designed and used for the 
study of non-driving behavior recognition. These sensors can 
be broadly divided into two categories, contact sensors and 
non-contact sensors. Cameras are representatives of non-con-
tact sensors and are widely used in the study of driving behav-
iors,
[11–13] which do not interfere with the drivers, and combined 
with advanced algorithms can achieve a relatively high recogni-
tion rate.
[14,15] However, cameras are susceptible to light inten-
sity, vibration, and blocking objects, and numerous computing 
resources are required to process the data collected by the cam-
eras.
[16,17] Physiological signal acquisition sensors and motion 
tracking sensors are representatives of the contact sensors, 
which are worn on drivers to harvest physiological signals (such 
as electroencephalogram (EEG), electrooculography (EOG), 
electrocardiogram (ECG), and Electromyography (EMG)
[18–22] 
and the motion signals (such as acceleration, angular speed, 
attitude angle, etc.)
[23,24] of drivers. The advantages of contact 
sensors lie in their environmental friendliness, but they are 
attached to the drivers causing great interference in driving, 
and cannot recognize subtle movements of drivers.
[25]
Triboelectric nanogenerators (TENGs), [26,27] an emerging 
energy harvesting technology, have attracted tremendous atten-
tion around the world since their invention. TENGs based on 
triboelectric effect and electrostatic induction effectively col-
lect and convert micromechanical energy into electricity. [28,29] 
Due to simple fabrication, low cost, high sensitivity, and self-
power, the TENGs-based sensors
[30–32] have been widely used in 
various fields such as human-computer interaction, [33] respira-
tory,[34] vibration and sound detection, [35,36] tactile and pressure 
sensing,[37,38] wearable detection devices[39–41] and etc. Moreover, 
the TENG exhibits high electric output in low frequency and 
microscale motion detection that can catch tiny signals from 
the human body.
[42–44] Researchers have conducted many excel-
lent studies on TENG-based sensors for human motion (such 
as hand gestures, breathing, sitting posture, gait, lip motion, 
waist motion, etc.) monitoring and recognition.
[45–54] However, 
there is little research reporting the use of TENG-based sen-
sors for driver behavior recognition in conditionally automated 
driving. Considering that every second of the driver’s tiny 
movement is critical to the safety of the vehicle in the process 
of driving, TENGs with their high sensitivity and micro-scale 
motion detection capability show great potential in autono-
mous driving.
In this article, we propose a real-time non-driving behavior 
recognition system (RNBRS) assisted by TENGs and deep 
learning for recognizing and monitoring the typical non-driving 
behaviors of drivers in conditionally automated driving. Tribo-
electric sensors, placed on hands, including TENGs attached to 
phalanxes and TENGs above knuckles, are capable of capturing 
bend-straighten and approach-separation signals. A universal 
LSTM model is adopted to realize the real-time recognition of 
the non-driving behaviors of different drivers, and the test accu-
racy reaches 93.5%. Triboelectric sensors enable RNBRS to col-
lect the signals of non-driving behaviors in an interference-free 
way, and a universal LSTM model enables RNBRS to cope with 
individual differences of drivers, improving the general appli-
cability of the system. Hence, RNBRS dynamically adjusts the 
takeover time budget for conditionally automated vehicles based 
on the driver’s non-driving behavior. This takeover time budget 
provides drivers proper time to recover situation awareness and 
driving ability, greatly improving the safety and stability of the 
takeover. This work has potential value in applications in effec-
tive human-machine interaction and smart cockpit.
This article is arranged as follows: the components and 
workflow of the RNBRS, structure, and mechanism of the tri-
boelectric sensors attached on hand are described in detail. 
The fundamental characteristics of the triboelectric sensors 
including TENGs attached to phalanxes and TENGs above 
knuckles are investigated. An experiment is conducted on a 
driving simulator to collect and analyze the triboelectric sensors 
data and image data of five types of non-driving behaviors of 
eight drivers, and to investigate the possibility of shallow fea-
tures (amplitude, frequency, and holding time) in recognizing 
the five types of behaviors. A non-driving behavior dataset is 
built using triboelectric sensors data and image data, and then 
the performances of well-trained multi-class classifiers based 
on two feature engineering methods (manual feature extrac-
tion and neural network-based feature extractor) are compared. 
A set of controlled experiments are conducted to compare the 
effect of the presence or absence of the RNBRS on the takeover 
performance in conditionally automated driving. Three indica-
tors are used to evaluate the takeover from the perspectives of 
safety and stability.
2. Results and Discussion
2.1. Design of Real-Time Non-Driving Behavior Recognition 
System and Triboelectric Sensors
Here, we report a concept of the real-time non-driving behavior 
recognition system (RNBRS) utilizing flexible triboelectric sen-
sors to collect signals and use classifiers based on deep learning 
technology to recognize non-driving behavior, as shown in 
Figure 1a. RNBRS is mainly consisted of triboelectric sensors 
(see details in Figure S1, Supporting Information), readout elec-
tronics, and deep neural network classifiers. The flexible tribo-
electric sensors are mounted on the phalanxes of each finger 
(proximal, middle, and distal phalanxes for the index, middle, 
ring fingers, and proximal, distal phalanxes for the thumb 
and small fingers) to capture the non-driving behaviors of the 
driver in conditionally automated driving. Taking a non-driving 
behavior, drinking, as an example, when the driver is drinking, 
the triboelectric sensors on the driver’s fingers detect the 
movement and then generate corresponding electrical signals. 
These electrical signals are stored and visualized by readout 
electronics and transferred to the well-trained deep learning 
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (3 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
Figure 1. The concept, structure, and mechanism of the real-time non-driving behavior recognition system aided by triboelectric sensors. a) Sche-
matic illustration of the real-time non-driving behavior recognition system and its components. b) Structure scheme and working mechanism of the 
triboelectric sensor. c) Electrical characteristics of triboelectric sensors placed on phalanxes. 1) One finger bent 90°, 2) One finger slowly bent 90°, 
3) One finger bent 60°, 4) Two fingers bent 60°. d) Electrical characteristics of triboelectric sensors placed on knuckles, 1) Tap phone with one finger. 
2) Tap the phone slowly with one finger. 3) Tap the phone with two fingers. 4) Tap the steering wheel with one finger. 5) Tap the bottle with one finger. 
6) Tap the touchpad with one finger.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (4 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
classifiers. Finally, the results of RNBRS are fed back to the 
vehicle with conditional driving automation, so that the vehicle 
can understand the driver’s state in real-time and make corre-
sponding adjustments in time.
Figure 1b(2) displays the detailed structure scheme of triboe-
lectric sensors. Our manufactured triboelectric sensors include 
two parts, TENGs attached to phalanxes and TENGs above 
knuckles. The TENGs placed on the phalanxes are used to cap-
ture the electrical signals of the finger’s contact and separation 
movement with other objects (such as mobile phone screens, 
steering wheels, etc.). The TENGs placed above the knuckles are 
used to capture the electrical signals of finger-bending move-
ment. These sensors are fabricated from the most common 
and basic materials using the typical single electrode structure 
of TENGs. The triboelectrification layers are composed of three 
layers, among which a piece of copper foil (50 µm) is attached 
to polytetrafluoroethylene film (PTFE, 30 µm) serving as elec-
trodes and PTFE acts as triboelectric polymers. A PI tape coated 
on copper foil plays a role in removing unnecessary interfer -
ence. Our triboelectric sensor with a simple structure and 
ingenious design can fully collect the key information of the 
drivers’ hands touching different objects and fingers bending. 
The triboelectric sensor using a single-electrode mode also 
simplifies the wiring arrangement and the sensor processing 
process without causing interference to the driver as much as 
possible.
The working mechanism of electric signal generation for the 
triboelectric sensor is shown in Figure 1b(1),(3). As shown in 
Figure 1b(1), the detailed working mechanism of triboelectric 
sensors attached to phalanxes (front side) is divided into four 
stages. Take touching the screen of the phone as an example. 
In stage I, when the finger completely touches the screen of the 
phone, the PTFE film is in close contact with the screen of the 
phone. At this moment, the generated negative charges on the 
PTFE film and positive charges on the screen of the phone are 
fully balanced. During stage II, once the finger starts to leave 
the screen of the phone, electrons flow from the copper elec-
trode to the ground to balance the potential difference between 
PTFE film and ground. When the finger continues to leave the 
screen of the phone to a certain distance (stage III), negative 
charges on PTFE film are fully neutralized by positive charges 
on copper, resulting in a zero potential difference between the 
PTFE film and ground, and no electrons flow. Once the finger 
approaches the screen of the phone again (stage IV), an oppo-
site potential difference will be generated between the PTFE 
film and the ground, and the electrons tend to flow back from 
the ground to the electrode until the screen of the phone is in 
full contact with the PTFE film. As the PTFE film and screen of 
the phone are periodically contacted and separated, continuous 
alternating voltages and currents are obtained. Figure 1b(1) 
schematically depicts the process of flowing electrons of 
triboelectric sensors above knuckles, which is similar to tribo-
electric sensors attached to phalanxes (see details in Note S2, 
Supporting Information).
The electrical characteristics of the triboelectric sensors 
are crucial for non-driving behavior recognition. Therefore, 
a set of controlled variable experiments were conducted to 
demonstrate and analyze the important characteristics of the 
triboelectric sensor, as shown in Figure 1c,d. Figure 1c shows 
the electrical signals produced by the triboelectric sensors 
above the knuckles under different bending angles, different 
bending speeds, and bending different numbers of fingers, 
respectively. The same number of fingers bends toward the 
palm at the same angles—the slower the speed, the longer the 
holding time of electrical signals waveforms, and the smaller 
the amplitude. The same number of fingers bend to the palm 
at different angles with the same speed, the greater the angle, 
the greater the amplitude of electrical signals. As for bending 
the same degrees toward the palm at the same speed, the 
amplitude of electrical signals increases with the number of 
fingers.
Figure 1d displays the electrical signals generated by the 
triboelectric sensor attached to phalanxes at different speeds, 
with different numbers of fingers and touching different 
materials. To exclude interference from the backside, fingers 
remain straight throughout the entire process of tapping. 
Tap the same object with the same finger—the faster the tap, 
the greater the amplitude, and the shorter the holding time 
of the electrical signal generated. As for tapping the same 
object at the same speed, the amplitude of the electrical signal 
increases with the number of fingers. The electrical signals 
generated from tapping different objects (screen of the phone, 
steering wheel, plastic bottle, and touchpad of console) at the 
same speed with the same finger vary in amplitude, showing 
that the triboelectric sensors are sensitive to the different 
objects.
In addition, the electrical signals generated by the same tri-
boelectric sensor on day 1 (first day of use) and on day 30 (after 
30 days of use) are compared (as shown in Figure 1c,d). Taking 
tapping the screen of the phone as an example, there is no sig-
nificant difference in electrical signals between day 1 and day 
30. In addition, combined with the other three durability test of 
the triboelectric sensors shown in Figure S2 (Supporting Infor -
mation), it proves that the triboelectric sensors have a stable 
mechanical durability.
2.2. Collection and Analysis of Electrical Signals Generated 
by Non-Driving Behaviors
We used triboelectric sensors to collect and analyze the data of 
non-driving behaviors in the conditionally automated driving 
environment, including four parts, namely data collection plat-
form, participants, data collection, and data analysis.
2.2.1. Data Collection Platform
This experiment was conducted on a fixed-base driving simu-
lator, as shown in Figure 2a. Simulated driving scenarios were 
made up through SCANeR studio (A V Simulation), a driving 
simulation software capable of simulating different driving 
automation levels (range from L0 to L5) of vehicles (Figure S3, 
Supporting Information). The vision system is a 100 inch 270° 
surround screen (3840 × 2160 resolutions) with two projectors. 
Data acquisition devices (Cdaq-9171 and NI 6002) were used to 
collect electrical signals data of non-driving behaviors by the tri-
boelectric sensors. A 14 inch laptop with LabVIEW was used to 
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (5 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
visualize and store electrical signal data of non-driving behav-
iors. A 720p HD camera (Logitech C922) situated on the right 
side of the cabin was used for capturing the detailed motion 
of drivers, and each frame of video was stamped with corre-
sponding system time aiming to synchronize the image data 
and electrical signals data of triboelectric sensors. An 11 inch 
iPad (iPad Pro 2021) placed on the console served as a console 
touchpad. Data from the driving simulator, data acquisition 
device, and HD camera were recorded at 100, 1000, and 60 Hz, 
respectively.
2.2.2. Participants
Existing research shows that driver group factors such as age 
[1–3], gender[4–5], and driving experience[6–8] can signifi-
cantly affect drivers’ takeover behavior. And because our system 
(RNBRS) is used to optimize the takeover warning systems for 
autonomous vehicles, in order to better verify our system in 
improving takeover performance, we selected young males as 
participant group. Eight male participants between the ages of 
22 and 28 years old (Mean = 25.25 years and SD = 1.7 years) and 
Figure 2. Collection and analysis of electrical signals generated by non-driving behavior. a) The configuration of the data collection platform. b–f) The 
electrical signals of triboelectric sensors for Phone, Console Touchpad, Drinking, No Operation, and Monitoring Driving. g) 3D plots of electrical signals 
generated by non-driving behavior signals from eight participants. h) The boxplot of the amplitude of electrical signals generated by eight non-driving 
behaviors. i) The boxplot of the amplitude of electrical signals generated by five types of non-driving behaviors.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (6 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
their palm lengths between 18 and 20 cm (Mean = 18.96 cm and 
SD = 0.67 cm) volunteered to take part in the experiment. Each 
participant has normal or corrected-to-normal vision, reported 
normal hearing, no simulation sickness, and has a valid driv-
er’s license. Participation was voluntary and received no mone-
tary compensation. The experiment is completed in a simulated 
environment, and there are no safety risks. The triboelectric 
sensors worn on hands are no safety concerns. Moreover, the 
experiment was conducted with the consent of all participants 
(Informed Consent Forms see Supporting Information), and 
participants could withdraw from the experiment at any time 
without reason.
2.2.3. Data Collection
Conditionally automated vehicles (Level 3) are capable of per -
forming most driving tasks, as a result, drivers do not have to 
devote their full attention to driving tasks as before. Instead of 
fully focusing on driving tasks, drivers distribute their atten-
tion on non-driving tasks. Manipulating the phone (denote as 
Phone), manipulating the console touchpad (denote as Con-
sole TouchPad), drinking water (denote as Drinking), doing 
nothing (denote as No Operation), and holding the steering 
wheel to monitor driving (denote as Monitoring Driving) are 
five most typical non-driver behaviors.
[24,55] These five types of 
non-driving behaviors are all compound movements including 
the contact separation of the fingertips and the bending and 
straightening of the finger joints, in other words, five types of 
non-driving behaviors are related to phalanxes and knuckles. 
Drivers need to put in different efforts when they get involved 
in these five types of non-driving behaviors, as a result, these 
five types of non-driving behaviors have different degrees of 
impact on drivers. The details of the above five types of non-
driving behaviors are as follow.
• Manipulating a phone mainly involves two kinds of motion, 
tap and scroll. Therefore, Phone consists of two sub-catego-
ries, Phone (Tap) and Phone (Scroll). Phone (Tap): Partici-
pants are asked to text someone through a Chinese social 
media application (Wechat). Phone (Scroll): Participants are 
required to scroll up or down to browse videos on Tiktok. 
Tiktok, covering a variety of short-form videos, is one of 
the most popular mobile applications in China, as well as 
globally.
• Similar to the Phone, Console T ouchpad consists of two sub-
categories, Console Touchpad (Tap) and Console Touchpad 
(Scroll). Console Touchpad (Tap): Participants are assigned 
to input a place name through the navigation system on the 
console touchpad. Console Touchpad (Scroll): Participants 
are required to find a certain place by scrolling the map on 
the navigation system of the console touchpad.
• Drinking: Participants are told to take up a plastic bottle of 
water from the cup holder, and take a sip of water, finally put 
the bottle back in its original place.
• Monitoring Driving: Participants are asked to put their hands 
on the steering wheel to monitor driving.
• No-operation is made up of two sub-categories, namely No-
operation (Hands on legs) and No-operation (Hands in the 
air). No Operation (Hands on legs): Participants are asked to 
put their hands on their legs. No Operation (Hands in the 
air): Participants are asked to put their hands in the air.
Each participant is asked to wear the triboelectric sensors 
and conduct the experiment on the data collection platform for 
≈20 min. During this time, participants are verbally informed 
to complete tasks including Phone (Tap), Phone (Scroll), Con-
sole Touchpad (Tap), Console Touchpad (Scroll), Driving, Moni-
toring Driving, No Operation (Hands on legs), and No Opera-
tion (Hands in the air), in random order. Corresponding data 
from triboelectric sensors and the camera are collected, as 
shown in Figure 2a. See Video S1 (Supporting Information) for 
the video.
2.2.4. Data Analysis
To find effective features to identify five types of non-driving 
behaviors, the triboelectric sensors data were analyzed in 
combination with image data. Figure 2b–f shows one partici-
pant’s electrical signals of triboelectric sensors under five dif -
ferent types of non-driving behaviors. Electrical signals unveil 
that Phone, Console TouchPad, and Drinking possess obvious 
characteristics of amplitude, holding time, and frequency. 
According to Figure 2b–d, the amplitude of Drinking is the 
largest, the amplitude of Phone is the smallest, and the ampli-
tude of Console TouchPad falls in between the two. For sub-
categories in Phone and Console TouchPad, the amplitude of 
scrolling has a greater amplitude than that of tapping. Drinking 
shows the longest holding time, and there is no significant dif -
ference in holding time between Phone and Console TouchPad. 
But, the holding time of Phone (Scroll) and Console TouchPad 
(Scroll) are respectively greater than those of Phone (Tap) and 
Console TouchPad (Tap), respectively. No Operation and Moni-
toring Driving are continuous behaviors, and thus, they do not 
have the two characteristics of amplitude and frequency. How-
ever, the floating range of their electrical signals is significantly 
smaller than the Phone, Console TouchPad, and Drinking.
Through the above analysis, it can be seen that No Opera-
tion and Monitoring Driving have no feature of the frequency 
and the holding time. The frequency and the holding time 
of Phone, Console TouchPad, and Drinking are affected by 
driving tasks and driver habits, therefore, showing no sub-
stantial value in recognizing non-driving behaviors. As a 
result, among the three features of amplitude, frequency, and 
holding time, the amplitude is the only feature that has the 
potential to recognize the five types of non-driving behaviors. 
Although No Operation and Monitoring Driving have no effec-
tive amplitude feature, we take 0.5 s as a cycle, and the differ -
ence between the maximum and minimum voltage values in 
each cycle is calculated as the amplitude of the cycle. In this 
way, the amplitude feature of No Operation and Monitoring 
Driving is obtained. Because of individual differences, the 
voltage of electrical signals is susceptible to many factors such 
as humidity, as shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information). 
Thus, to attenuate the effects of individual differences and 
develop a universally applicable real-time non-driving recog-
nition system, we collected data from eight participants (as 
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (7 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
shown in Figure 2g), and performed statistical analysis on the 
amplitude of data shown in Figure 2h,i.
The boxplot of the amplitude of five types of non-driving 
behaviors is shown in Figure 2i. Figure 2i reveals that the 
amplitude of Phone (Median = 2.487), Console Touchpad 
(Median = 3.408), and Drinking (Median = 5.676) are signifi-
cantly larger than No Operation (Median = 0.247) and Moni-
toring Driving (Median = 0.268), the amplitude of Drinking is 
generally larger than that of Console Touchpad, and the ampli-
tude of Console Touchpad is generally larger than that of Phone. 
To investigate the effect of the means of amplitude on five types 
of non-driving behaviors, an ANOVA (Analysis of Variance) was 
performed. Phone, Console TouchPad, and Drinking are signifi-
cantly different from any other non-driving behaviors (p < 0.001). 
But, there is no significant difference in the mean amplitude 
between No Operation and Monitoring Driving (p = 0.939).
Although the amplitude of five types of non-driving behaviors 
shows a certain pattern, these non-driving behaviors could not 
be accurately distinguished by the amplitude. As for Drinking 
and Phone, the amplitude of them can distinguish most of 
them from each other. However, taking Console Touchpad and 
Phone as an example, only by the feature of amplitude could 
not effectively differentiate one from another, because a consid-
erable part of the amplitudes of two types of behaviors overlaps. 
There is no significant difference in the amplitude of electrical 
signals between No Operation and Monitoring Driving, there-
fore, it is impossible to distinguish No Operation from Moni-
toring Driving by the amplitude.
2.3. Data Processing via Machine Learning Technology
The above work demonstrates that manual extraction of 
shallow features from triboelectric sensors waveforms, such 
as amplitude, frequency, and holding time, cannot achieve 
recognition of non-driving behavior and is very susceptible to 
environmental variations. Moreover, considering the individual 
differences and complexity of the non-driving behavior signals 
detected by the triboelectric sensors, it is necessary to combine 
machine learning technology to realize real-time intelligent rec-
ognition of non-driving behavior.
We propose machine learning-based real-time non-driving 
behavior recognition models containing four processes: namely, 
data pre-processing, sliding time window processing, dataset, 
and model training and testing, as shown in Figure 3a. Data pre-
processing is conducted to remove noisy and redundant data by 
using low pass filtering and downsampling, which is beneficial 
to further feature engineering and algorithm training. Sliding 
time window processing processes data gathered from tribo-
electric sensors and image data collected by HD cameras, and 
reshapes the triboelectric sensors’ data into a dataset (X, Y) con-
taining samples X of a specified length (width of time window), 
to facilitate the model building, and meet the needs of real-time 
detection. Dataset (X, Y) is used for the training and testing of 
supervised machine learning models. The supervised machine 
learning algorithm models take triboelectric sensors data X as 
model input and image data as label Y.
However, using the data X in the dataset as raw features may 
have the following shortcomings:
[56] 1) the redundancy among 
features is relatively high; 2) not all features are useful for pre-
diction; 3) many features are usually volatile; 4) there is often 
some noise in raw features. To improve the performance of 
machine learning algorithms, feature engineering is conducted 
to maximize the extraction of adequate and stable features from 
the raw data. In this paper, we perform feature engineering on 
raw data by two methods: hand-crafted feature extraction and 
feature extraction with deep neural network feature extrac-
tors.
[56] Hand-crafted features purposefully extract target infor -
mation manually based on the specificity of the task and the 
expert experience in designing features. The deep neural net-
work feature extractor can first learn simple features from big 
data, and gradually learn more complex and abstract deep fea-
tures from it, without relying on manual feature engineering.
The construction of models is as follows:
1. Data pre-processing: The collected raw voltage data by tri-
boelectric sensors were low-pass filtered (cut-off frequen-
cy = 15 Hz), and down-sampled (from 1000 to 60 Hz).
2. Sliding time window processing: With the help of the slid-
ing time window, the voltage signal of triboelectric sensors 
is transformed into a set of samples, and the label of each 
sample is determined by the image information correspond-
ing to the last moment of the sliding time window. The step 
size stride = 1 for each sliding of the sliding time window, and 
the window width = W is a hyperparameter, and the optimal 
value of W needs to be determined during model training.
3. Dataset: After the processes of the first two steps, a dataset 
(X, Y) was obtained, where X = (x
1,x2, …, x m), representing 
a total of m samples, x i = (v1, v2, …, vw), indicating that each 
sample contains w voltage values, also was the window width 
of the sliding time window. Y = (y
1, y2, …, ym) represented the 
labels corresponding to m samples, and five values in y i = (1, 
2, 3, 4, 5) represented the non-driving behavior, respectively, 
where Label = 1 denoted Phone, Label = 2 denoted Console 
TouchPad, Label = 3 denoted Drinking, Label = 4 denoted No 
Operation, Label = 5 denoted Monitoring Driving.
4. Model training and testing: Dataset was divided into a train-
ing set and a testing set according to the ratio of 8:2 (as shown 
in Figure 3b). Two multi-class classifiers were obtained ac-
cording to the hand-crafted features, which were the Random 
Forest (RF) classifier based on tree models and the Support 
Vector Machine (SVM) classifier based on distance. Accord-
ing to the deep neural network feature extractor, a recurrent 
neural network multi-class classifier that is good at process-
ing time series data was obtained. To facilitate comparison, 
we trained and tested three types of classifiers (Recurrent 
Neural Network (RNN), long short-term memory (LSTM), 
and gated recurrent neural network (GRU)). The details of 
RF, SVM, LSTM, GRU, and RNN, are described in Note S6 
(Supporting Information).
The hand-crafted features extraction method is com-
posed of feature extraction and feature selection. Here, we 
performed time-domain and frequency-domain feature 
extraction on all samples, including 20 candidate features 
from the time domain, and 22 candidate features from the 
frequency domain, and more details are shown in Table S1 
(Supporting Information). Since the hand-crafted features 
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (8 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
are heuristic and the starting points behind their algorithm 
design are different, conflicts may arise when combining 
these features.
[56] To bring out the effectiveness of the com-
bined features, we normalized the candidate features and 
ranked the candidate features according to their contribution. 
N features were then selected to form a feature vector for 
model training. Combined with tenfold Cross-Validation to 
complete the training of the RF classifier and SVM classi-
fier, the comparison results of different hyperparameter 
combinations (window width of sliding time window and a 
Figure 3. Realization of non-driving behavior recognition via machine learning technology. a) Flow diagram of machine learning for non-driving 
behavior recognition. b) Details of the distribution of samples in the training set and the testing set. c) The confusion matrix for RF classifier outcome 
on the testing set. d) The confusion matrix for SVM classifier outcome on the testing set. e) Schematic diagram of the overall structure of the recurrent 
neural network model. f) Comparison of the test accuracy for three recurrent neural network models. g–i) Visualization of the 2D features of the LSTM 
model, GRU model, and RNN model. j) The confusion matrix for LSTM classifier outcome on the testing set.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (9 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
number of features) during the training process are shown 
in Figure S8 (Supporting Information). The optimal hyper -
parameter combinations for the RF classifier and SVM clas-
sifier are W = 50, N = 35, and W = 70, N = 25, respectively. 
Figure 3c,d represents the performance of RF and SVM on 
the testing set, respectively. The total recognition accuracy of 
the RF classifier is 84.2%, and the total recognition accuracy 
of the SVM classifier is 86.4%.
The network structure of the model based on the neural 
network feature extractor is shown in Figure 3e. The input of 
input layer is X. The hidden layer is a multi-layer recurrent 
neural network, including two hyperparameters, the number of 
hidden layers, and the number of neurons. Feature vectors are 
output by the feature layer. The feature vectors are the repre-
sentation of the training sample in the depth feature space after 
being processed by the first two layers. The dimension of the 
feature vectors is the same as the number of neurons in each 
layer of the hidden layer. The feature vectors are processed by a 
fully connected layer and a softmax layer to obtain the classifi-
cation result. The values of hyperparameters and performance 
of models are shown in Figure S9 (Supporting Information). 
Finally, a four layer dilated recurrent neural network with 100 
neurons in each layer is adopted, and the window width of 
the sliding time window is 80. The performance of the classi-
fier composed of different neurons on the testing set is shown 
in Figure 3f. It is obvious that the LSTM (93.5%) classifier has 
higher prediction accuracy compared with the GRU classifier 
(92.4%) and the RNN classifier (89.8%).
The 2D feature space was selected to visualize the distribution 
of samples in the feature space. Figure 3g–i show the distribu-
tion of testing samples in the feature space of LSTM, GRU, and 
RNN models, respectively. Different colors represent different 
categories. Compared with GRU and RNN models, the distribu-
tion of samples in the feature space of the LSTM model shows 
stronger inter-class separability and intra-class compactness.
The confusion matrix of the classification results of the five 
types of non-driving behaviors on the testing set based on the 
LSTM (RNN and GRU are shown in Figure S10 (Supporting 
Information)) classifier is shown in Figure 4j. The accuracy 
of the Phone and Console TouchPad is over 99%, and the 
Drinking also achieves a high accuracy of 96.8%, but No Opera-
tion and Monitoring Driving possess relatively low accuracy 
rates, 88.1%, and 85.6%, respectively. The recognition accuracy 
of the LSTM model in Figure 4j and the distribution of testing 
samples in the feature space of the LSTM model in Figure 4g 
show similar regularities.
In summary, the performance of multi-class classifiers 
based on deep neural network feature extractors is better 
than that based on hand-crafted features, and among the 
multi-class classifiers based on deep neural network fea-
ture extractors, the LSTM model has the best performance 
(accuracy = 93.5%).
2.4. Demonstration of Takeover with the Real-Time Non-Driving 
Behavior Recognition System
As for vehicles with conditional driving automation (Level 3), 
the drivers are no longer required to devote their attention to 
driving-related tasks. However, when the Level 3 automated 
vehicle issues a TOR due to system failure or reaching its func-
tional limit, the driver needs to take over the control of the 
vehicle. When the driver takes over the control of the vehicle, 
the driver needs to switch from the non-driving state to the 
driving state. It takes a period of time to adjust and prepare to 
recover situational awareness and driving ability. This period 
of time for the preparation of the takeover is named as the 
takeover time budget. In this paper, the takeover time budget 
is defined as the time to collision (TTC) from the ego-vehicle 
to the front vehicle when TOR is issued. RNBRS are used for 
dynamic adjustment of takeover time budget to improve the 
quality of driver takeovers.
In this article, the takeover includes three stages (as shown 
in Figure 4a). In Stage I, the vehicle is in an autonomous state, 
and the driver does not need to perform any driving-related 
tasks. In stage II, a broken-down vehicle appears on the lane 
of the ego-vehicle to simulate a situation where the ego-vehicle 
reaches the system limit. When the ego-vehicle reaches a 
system limit, a TOR is delivered to the driver in form of text on 
screen and audio (buzzing). After the issuance of TOR, drivers 
are required to turn left to avoid the broken-down vehicle in the 
ego-lane and press the auto mode button to return autonomous 
state after completing the avoidance. In addition, triggers are set 
in Stage I, and when triggers are activated, an audio instruction 
is given to requiring the driver to complete the specified non-
driving behavior. This ensures that the driver is performing a 
specific non-driving behavior when the TOR is issued. In stage 
III, the vehicle returns to an autonomous state again.
A set of controlled experiments were conducted to demon-
strate the value of RNBRS in the takeover task. In the first 
experiment, each driver was required to complete five takeover 
tasks without RNBRS, and each takeover task corresponded to 
one of the five types of non-driving behaviors (Phone, Con-
sole TouchPad, Drinking, No Operation, Monitoring Driving), 
as shown in Figure 4b. The takeover time budgets in the first 
experiment were set to 5 s.
[57] In the second experiment, each 
driver was informed to complete five takeover tasks with 
RNBRS. The takeover time budgets of the five non-driving 
behaviors are matched according to the recognition results 
of the RNBRS. The takeover time budgets for Monitoring 
Driving, No Operation, Console TouchPad, Drinking, and 
Phone were set to 5, 6, 7, 8, and 10 s, respectively (Note. The 
takeover time budgets of the four behaviors are obtained from 
multiple experiments, and the most reasonable takeover time 
budget needs further studied as a separate topic), as shown in 
Figure 4c. See Videos S2–S5 (Supporting Information) for the 
videos.
In this paper, there are three indicators for evaluating the 
quality of takeover, which are the minimum TTC, maximum 
lateral deceleration (MLD), and maximum longitudinal accel-
eration (MLA). These three indicators were calculated from 
data of the driving simulator, of which TTC was used to eval-
uate the safety of the takeover, and MLD and MLA were used 
to evaluate the stability of the takeover. The takeover perfor -
mance of eight drivers with and without RNBRS was investi-
gated, as shown in Figure 4d. Monitoring driving performs 
similarly with and without the RNBRS across all three indica-
tors. Drivers performing Phone, Console TouchPad, Drinking, 
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (10 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
and No Operation with RNBRS result in greater minimum 
TTC than drivers without RNBRS, indicating improvements 
in the safety of the takeover with RNBRS. Drivers performing 
Phone, Console TouchPad, Drinking and No Operation with 
RNBRS possess much smaller MLA and MLD than drivers 
without RNBRS, showing enhancements to the stability of the 
takeover. According to the results of ANOVA, the takeover per -
formance of drivers with RNBRS shows a significant difference 
(p < 0.001) from drivers without RNBRS in all types of non-
driving behaviors except Monitoring Driving. Combining the 
histograms with the results of the ANOVA, the takeover perfor -
mance of drivers with RNBRS is significantly better than that of 
drivers without RNBRS.
3. Conclusion
In this study, we proposed and investigated an RNBRS aided 
by triboelectric sensors operated in single-electrode mode. The 
structure, working mechanism, and electrical characteristics of 
the triboelectric sensors were tested and analyzed in detail. Sig-
nals of five types of non-driving behaviors were collected by tri-
boelectric sensors and shallow features (amplitude, frequency, 
and holding time) were analyzed. To realize an accurate, gen-
eral applied non-driving behavior recognition, two multi-class 
classifiers based on manual feature extraction and three multi-
class classifiers based on neural network feature extractors 
were trained and tested, of which LSTM with an accuracy of 
Figure 4. The comparison of takeover performance with and without driver monitoring systems. a) Schematic illustration of the flow of takeover. b) 
Photograph of takeover without RNBRS. c) Photograph of takeover with RNBRS. d) The comparison of the takeover performance of eight drivers with 
and without RNBRS in terms of the mean of three evaluation indicators (minimum TTC, maximum longitudinal deceleration, and maximum lateral 
acceleration). The number of Asterisks (*) indicates the results of the ANOVA, where no star stands for p > 0.05, one * stands for 0.01 < p < 0.05, two 
** stand for 0.001 < p < 0.01, three *** stands for p < 0.001.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (11 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
93.5% outperformed the other four classifiers (RF = 84.2%, 
SVM = 86.4%, RNN = 89.8%, and GRU = 92.3%). A set of con-
trolled experiments were conducted to compare the effect of the 
presence or absence of the RNBRS on the takeover performance 
in conditionally automated driving. Three indicators were used 
to evaluate the takeover performance from the perspectives of 
safety and stability. The results revealed that RNBRS’s dynamic 
adjustment to the takeover time budget according to the cur -
rent driver behavior contributed to improving the takeover both 
in safety and stability. Through the well-built RNBRS addresses 
the influence caused by individual differences to a certain 
extent. However, due to the limitation of our triboelectric 
sensor and deep learning-based models, as well as the impact 
of age, gender, and driving experience on takeover behaviors, it 
is difficult for the RNBRS proposed in this paper to fully con-
sider these factors. In the future, we will try to develop more 
advanced triboelectric sensors and smarter algorithm models 
to more comprehensively and accurately identification of non-
driving behaviors in conditional automated driving.
Supporting Information
Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or 
from the author.
Acknowledgements
H.Z. and H.T. contributed equally to this work and should be considered 
as co-first authors. This work was supported by National Key R&D 
Program of China (2019YFB1704001) and National Natural Science 
Foundation of China via grant no. 51805034 and no. 51878045. Haodong 
Zhang would also like to acknowledge the fellowship from the China 
Scholarship Council (CSC).
Conflict of Interest
The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Data Availability Statement
Research data are not shared.
Keywords
conditionally automated driving, deep learning, non-driving behavior 
recognition, takeover, triboelectric sensors
Received: September 12, 2022
Revised: November 2, 2022
Published online: December 7, 2022
[1] F. Chen, G. Lu, H. Tan, M. Liu, Accid. Anal. Prev. 2022, 177, 106826.
[2] SAE, Taxonomy and definitions for terms related to driving automation 
systems for on-road motor vehicles-. Publication J3016_202104, SAE 
International, Warrendale, PA 2021.
[3] J. Dokic, B. Müller, G. Meyer, Eur. Technol. Platf. Smart Syst. Integr. 
2015, 39.
[4] P. Kerschbaum, L. Lorenz, K. Bengler, A transforming steering wheel 
for highly automated cars, 2015, pp. 1287–1292.
[5] C. Gold, R. Happee, K. Bengler, Accid. Anal. Prev. 2018, 116, 3.
[6] C. Gold, Proc. Hum. Factors Ergon. Soc. Annu. Meet. 2013, 57, 1938.
[7] J. Wan, C. Wu, Int. J. Hum.-Comput. Interact. 2018, 34, 987.
[8] B. Wandtner, N. Schömig, G. Schmidt, Hum. Factors 2018, 60, 870.
[9] N. Du, F. Zhou, E. M. Pulver, D. M. Tilbury, L. P. Robert, 
A. K. Pradhan, X. J. Yang, Accid. Anal. Prev. 2020, 148, 1.
[10] F. Chen, G. Lu, Q. Lin, J. Zhai, Transp. Res. F: Traffic Psychol. Behav. 
2021, 81.
[11] S. K. S. , V. N. , N. V. , in 2020 International Conference on Communi-
cation and Signal Processing (ICCSP), 2020, pp. 1422–1425.
[12] G. A. , G. H. , B. W. , in 2020 IEEE 16th International Conference on 
Intelligent Computer Communication and Processing (ICCP), 2020, 
pp. 407–414.
[13] W. Li, Y . Cui, Y . Ma, X. Chen, G. Li, IEEE Trans. Affect. Comput. 2021.
[14] A. M. , A. R. , in 2020 International Conference on Electrical, Commu-
nication, and Computer Engineering (ICECCE), 2020, pp. 1–5.
[15] V. T. H. , D. A. , W. J. C. , IEICE Trans. Inf. Syst. 2019, 102, 2637.
[16] F. Wen, Z. Zhang, T. He, C. Lee, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 1.
[17] H. Zhang, Q. Cheng, X. Lu, W. Wang, Z. Wang, C. Sun, Nano Energy 
2021, 79, 105455.
[18] H. J. , L. Y . , P. X. , Biomed. Signal Process. Control 2022, 71, 103094.
[19] J. Chen, H. Li, L. Han, J. Wu, A. Azam, Z. Zhang, Appl. Soft Comput. 
2022, 123, 108982.
[20] Y . Fan, F. Gu, J. Wang, J. Wang, K. Lu, IEEE Internet Things J. 2021.
[21] J. J. , B. L. , F. A. G. , IEEE Access 2021, 9, 131637.
[22] D. Wang, Y . Lin, L. Hong, C. Zhang, Y . Bai, Z. Z. Bi, Math. Probl. 
Eng. 2022, 2022.
[23] M. Shahverdy, M. Fathy, R. Berangi, Expert Syst. Appl. 2020, 149, 113240.
[24] Z. Xie, L. Li, X. Xu, Hum. Factors 2021.
[25] D. Esposito, E. Andreozzi, G. D. Gargiulo, A. Fratini, G. D’Addio, 
G. R. Naik, P. Bifulco, Front. Neurorobotics 2020, 13.
[26] G. Zhu, C. Pan, W. Guo, C. Y . Chen, Y . Zhou, R. Yu, Z. L. Wang, Triboe-
lectric-generator-driven pulse electrodeposition for micropatterning 2012, 12.
[27] F. R. Fan, Z. Q. Tian, Z. L. Wang, Flexible Triboelectric Generator, 
Elsevier, 2012, 1.
[28] Z. L. Wang, A. C. Wang, Mater. Today 2019, 30, 34.
[29] Z. L. Wang, Mater. Today 2017, 20, 74.
[30] S. M. S. Rana, M. A. Zahed, M. T. Rahman, M. Salauddin, S. H. Lee, 
C. Park, P. Maharjan, T. Bhatta, K. Shrestha, J. Y . Park, Adv. Funct. 
Mater. 2021, 31, 2105110.
[31] J. Han, Y . Feng, P. Chen, X. Liang, H. Pang, T. Jiang, Z. L. Wang, Adv. 
Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2108580.
[32] X. Lu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, H. Yang, L. Zheng, W. Wang, C. Sun, 
Nano Energy 2021, 89, 106352.
[33] M. Zhu, Z. Sun, T. Chen, C. Lee, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12.
[34] Z. Zhao, C. Yan, Z. Liu, X. Fu, L. M. Peng, Y . Hu, Z. Zheng, Adv. 
Mater. 2016, 28, 10267.
[35] F. Cai, C. Yi, S. Liu, Y . Wang, L. Liu, X. Liu, X. Xu, L. Wang, Biosens. 
Bioelectron. 2016, 77, 907.
[36] H. Guo, X. Pu, J. Chen, Y . Meng, M. H. Yeh, G. Liu, Q. Tang, 
B. Chen, D. Liu, S. Qi, C. Wu, C. Hu, J. Wang, Z. L. Wang, Sci. 
Robot. 2018, 3.
[37] X. Pu, Q. Tang, W. Chen, Z. Huang, G. Liu, Q. Zeng, J. Chen, 
H. Guo, L. Xin, C. Hu, Nano Energy 2020, 76.
[38] Q. Shi, Z. Zhang, T. He, Z. Sun, B. Wang, Y . Feng, X. Shan, 
B. Salam, C. Lee, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11.
[39] M. Salauddin, S. M. S. Rana, M. T. Rahman, M. Sharifuzzaman, 
P. Maharjan, T. Bhatta, H. Cho, S. H. Lee, C. Park, K. Shrestha, 
S. Sharma, J. Y . Park, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2107143.
[40] D. G. Dassanayaka, T. M. Alves, N. D. Wanasekara, I. G. Dharmasena, 
J. Ventura, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2205438.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
www.afm-journal.dewww.advancedsciencenews.com
2210580 (12 of 12) © 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH
[41] H. Shen, H. Lei, M. Gu, S. Miao, Z. Gao, X. Sun, L. Sun, 
G. Chen, H. Huang, L. Chen, Z. Wen, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 
2204525.
[42] C. Li, D. Liu, C. Xu, Z. Wang, S. Shu, Z. Sun, W. Tang, Z. L. Wang, 
Nat. Commun. 2021, 12.
[43] K. R. S. D. Gunawardhana, N. D. Wanasekara, R. D. I. G. Dharmasena, 
iScience 2020, 23.
[44] X. Meng, Q. Cheng, X. Jiang, Z. Fang, X. Chen, S. Li, C. Li, C. Sun, 
W. Wang, Z. L. Wang, Nano Energy 2018, 51, 721.
[45] Y . Lu, H. Tian, J. Cheng, F. Zhu, B. Liu, S. Wei, L. Ji, Z. L. Wang, Nat. 
Commun. 2022, 13, 1.
[46] W. Xu, S. Liu, J. Yang, Y . Meng, S. Liu, G. Chen, L. Jia, Nano Energy 
2022, 101, 107557.
[47] K. Qin, C. Chen, X. Pu, Q. Tang, W. He, Y . Liu, Q. Zeng, G. Liu, 
H. Guo, C. Hu, Nano-Micro Lett. 2021, 13, 1.
[48] Y . Han, F. Yi, C. Jiang, K. Dai, Y . Xu, X. Wang, Z. You, Nano Energy 
2019, 56, 516.
[49] Y . Zeng, H. Xiang, N. Zheng, X. Cao, N. Wang, Z. L. Wang, Nano 
Energy 2022, 91, 106601.
[50] M. B. Durukan, M. O. Cicek, D. Doganay, M. C. Gorur, S. Çınar, 
H. E. Unalan, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2106066.
[51] Y . Jiang, J. An, F. Liang, G. Zuo, J. Yi, C. Ning, H. Zhang, K. Dong, 
Z. L. Wang, Nano Res. 2022, 1.
[52] Q. Zhang, T. Jin, J. Cai, L. Xu, T. He, T. Wang, Y . Tian, L. Li, Y . Peng, 
C. Lee, Adv. Sci. 2022, 9, 1.
[53] X. Qu, Z. Liu, P. Tan, C. Wang, Y . Liu, H. Feng, D. Luo, Z. Li, 
Z. L. Wang, 2022, 2521, 1.
[54] Y . Su, G. Chen, C. Chen, Q. Gong, G. Xie, M. Yao, H. Tai, Y . Jiang, 
J. Chen, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33.
[55] J. Stutts, J. Feaganes, D. Reinfurt, E. Rodgman, C. Hamlett, K. Gish, 
L. Staplin, Elsevier 2005, 37, 1093.
[56] M. A. Nielsen, Neural Networks and Deep Learning, Determination 
Press, 2015.
[57] B. W. Weaver, P. R. DeLucia, Hum. Factors 2022, 64, 1227.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2210580
 16163028, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202210580 by Huazhong University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [29/06/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
